<pre>
  IP: 000 
  Layer: applications
  Title: Slashpay
  Author: synonym.to
  Comments-Summary: 
  Comments-URI: 
  Status: Draft 
  Type: Standards Track
  Created: 2013-09-10
</pre>

== Abstract ==
Slashpay abstracts and automates any payment method behind a single, static public key. Slashpay enables applications where users pay directly to profiles, so offers a very intuitive experience, particularly when multiple payment methods are possible within the system.  

== Motivation ==
Automated switch between payment mechanisms should sipmlyfiy user experience for both sides of the payment. It also allows to reduce congitive overhead during the use different payment methods for different purposes. For example, onchain for large amounts and ln for small ones.

== User story ==

Alice wants to receive payment

Steps for Alice:
# For each supported payment method Alice creates corresponding payment file and stores under publicly availbable location identified by URL. The content of the file is spcific to the payment method;
# Generate json index file with keys being names of the previously created payment methods and values refrences to corresponding payment files;
# Share url to index file with counteparties.

Steps for Bob:
# Read index file by URL received from Alice;
# Select desirable payment method iterating over keys;
# Read content of the payment file accessing it by refecence (value from the corresponding entry in the index file);
# Execute payment using details from the contenct ofo correspondig payment file (ln invoice, onchain address etc);
# In case of a failure try next supported payment method according to personal priorities.

'''Note:''' ''addressing'' and ''transport'' schemes are arbitrary with the only requirements that they both must be suppored by each of the payment counterparties.

== Index file ==

=== Public payments: ===
* Default path: ''/public/slashpay.json''
* Custom paths are supported as well

==== Schema: ====

  {
    "$schema": "http://json-schema.org/draft-07/schema#",
    "type": "object",
    "properties": {
      "paymentEndpoints": {
        "type": "object"
       }
    },
    "required": ["paymentEndpoints"]
  }

==== Template: ====
  {
    "paymentEndpoints": {
      "<payment method name>": "<URL>/public/slashpay/<payment method name>/slashpay.json"
    }
  }

==== Example: ====
  {
    "paymentEndpoints": {
      "bolt11":"slash:5din1q9wuzzrqfiphtyd4648j6nqgyrnzmuboko1fokbdxh5rj7y/public/slashpay/bolt11/slashpay.json?relay=http://localhost:3000#",
      "onchain":"slash:5din1q9wuzzrqfiphtyd4648j6nqgyrnzmuboko1fokbdxh5rj7y/public/slashpay/onchain/slashpay.json?relay=http://localhost:3000#",
    }
  }

=== Private payments: ===

==== Schema: ====
  {
    "$schema": "http://json-schema.org/draft-07/schema#",
    "type": "object",
    "properties": {
      "paymentEndpoints": {
         "type": "object"
       }
    },
    "required": ["paymentEndpoints"]
  }

==== Template: ====
  {
    "paymentEndpoints": {
      "<payment method name>": "<URL>/slashpay/<random id>/slashpay/<payment method name>/slashpay.json"
    }
  }

==== Example: ====
  {
    "paymentEndpoints": {
      "bolt11":"slash:5din1q9wuzzrqfiphtyd4648j6nqgyrnzmuboko1fokbdxh5rj7y/slashpay/FFFFFFFF-FFFF-FFFF-FFFF-FFFFFFFFFFFF/slashpay/bolt11/slashpay.json?relay=http://localhost:3000#encryptionKey=ozpcsq7qfcpumobamisgdqunqn4osopbmmiip8y4d6nuuawhiyiy",
      "onchain":"slash:5din1q9wuzzrqfiphtyd4648j6nqgyrnzmuboko1fokbdxh5rj7y/slashpay/FFFFFFFF-FFFF-FFFF-FFFF-FFFFFFFFFFFF/slashpay/onchain/slashpay.json?relay=http://localhost:300#encryptionKey=ozpcsq7qfcpumobamisgdqunqn4osopbmmiip8y4d6nuuawhiyiy"
    }
  }

== Plugin specific payment file: ==

The content of the file is arbitrary with only requirement to be written and read by plugin.

=== Example for '''bolt11''' plugin: ===
  {
    "bolt11":"lnbcrt1pj5pn7tpp5c9sv2wjdc8lc3eaj48mjfamy60d6mkpw09nhl0g92dm8gk7kqmsqdqqcqzzsxqr23ssp5ml7jh23fqz94a889uxjludht0pvf9dtxjslsahtwtpd8lzksp2zq9qyyssqm79hxquhzeltvhjm367lzlnx7fck4guemel6httr5hzdncf4uu4hum0v8gtu46kunknqtxzrqjchw5gyn96j43uwwvdtvd5ypwc5cacp9e33v0"
  }

=== Example for '''onchain''' plugin: ===
  {
    "p2wpkh":"bcrt1q8dmjhwj0ptrfhc6hhnzlmwp0mtlx7x62pxllru"
  }

== Reference implementation ==
* [https://github.com/slashtags/slashpay-solo PayKit] reference implementation which uses [https://github.com/slashtags/url SlashUrl] and [https://github.com/slashtags/web-relay Slashtags] for addressing and transport correspondingly

== Other implementations ==
*
